README.md, before:

## A Biased Random Key Genetic Algorithm applied to the VRPTW with Skill Requirements and Synchronization Constraints

This repository contains the code of the genetic algorithm presented in [GECCO 2020 conference](https://gecco-2020.sigevo.org/index.html/HomePage).

## Building the project

To be able to compile the code, you need:
- A C++17 compiler (clang >= 6.0 should be fine)
- CMake build system

To build the project, browse to the `build` directory and issue the command `cmake ..` to generate the makefile. Then, simply run `make`. By default, CMake is set to generate a debug-friendly binary, with all code optimizations disabled and all symbols embedded. To change this behavior, run `cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` to enable the `-O2` optimization flag.

## Running the genetic algorithm

Once compiled, you should be ready to use this implementation of the BRKGA. If you execute the binary `brkga` without any arguments, it will present you the command line usage.

```bash
$./brkga
Usage: ./brkga  <1:inst path> <2:seed> <3:pop size> <4:num generations> <5:% elite> <6:% mutant> <7:% bias inherit elite>
```

Following the list of parameters, you need to specify:

- `<1: inst path>` The path to the instance file to be solved
- `<2: seed>` The seed to be set into the Pseudo-RNG
- `<3: pop size>` Number of individuals of each generation
- `<4:num generations>` Number of generations to evolve
- `<5:% elite>` Population percentage of elite individuals
- `<6:% mutant>` Population percentage of new mutants
- `<7:% bias inherit elite>` Probability to inherit an allele from the elite parent during the mating

__Note__: `<5:% elite> +  <6:% mutant> < 1.0`

__Note 2__: `<7:% bias inherit elite> < 1.0`

An example of usage is the following. This example uses 8 threads to decode the individuals. To disable multithreading, set the environment variable `OMP_NUM_THREADS=1`.

```bash
$ ./brkga ../instances-HHCRSP/InstanzVNS_HCSRP_200_8.txt 2 885 1823 0.20655 0.05408 0.32728
=== BRKGA-based solver for the HHCRSP ===
Instance: ../instances-HHCRSP/InstanzVNS_HCSRP_200_8.txt
Seed: 2
Generation = 50, best solution =  2903.09, elapsed time = 3.481 secs.
Generation = 100, best solution =  1765.38, elapsed time = 7.168 secs.
Generation = 150, best solution =  1571.42, elapsed time = 10.492 secs.
Generation = 200, best solution =  1461.08, elapsed time = 13.887 secs.
Generation = 250, best solution =  1392.1, elapsed time = 17.318 secs.
Generation = 300, best solution =  1320.64, elapsed time = 20.737 secs.
Generation = 350, best solution =  1274.02, elapsed time = 24.355 secs.
Generation = 400, best solution =  1232.03, elapsed time = 27.664 secs.
Generation = 450, best solution =  1182.36, elapsed time = 31.117 secs.
Generation = 500, best solution =  1166.19, elapsed time = 34.72 secs.
Generation = 550, best solution =  1161.21, elapsed time = 38.215 secs.
Generation = 600, best solution =  1158.65, elapsed time = 41.631 secs.
Generation = 650, best solution =  1154.9, elapsed time = 45.002 secs.
Generation = 700, best solution =  1154.05, elapsed time = 48.51 secs.
Generation = 750, best solution =  1152.38, elapsed time = 51.901 secs.
Generation = 800, best solution =  1147.3, elapsed time = 55.352 secs.
Generation = 850, best solution =  1147.3, elapsed time = 58.882 secs.
Generation = 900, best solution =  1147.3, elapsed time = 62.523 secs.
Generation = 950, best solution =  1140.87, elapsed time = 66.19 secs.
Generation = 1000, best solution =  1138.8, elapsed time = 69.812 secs.
Generation = 1050, best solution =  1137.1, elapsed time = 73.386 secs.
Generation = 1100, best solution =  1135.76, elapsed time = 76.845 secs.
Generation = 1150, best solution =  1135.76, elapsed time = 80.285 secs.
Generation = 1200, best solution =  1135.3, elapsed time = 83.768 secs.
Generation = 1250, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 87.235 secs.
Generation = 1300, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 90.75 secs.
Generation = 1350, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 94.337 secs.
Generation = 1400, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 98.075 secs.
Generation = 1450, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 101.765 secs.
Generation = 1500, best solution =  1135.14, elapsed time = 105.311 secs.
Generation = 1550, best solution =  1135.14, elapsed time = 109.195 secs.
Generation = 1600, best solution =  1135.14, elapsed time = 112.752 secs.
Generation = 1650, best solution =  1134.21, elapsed time = 116.168 secs.
Generation = 1700, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 119.571 secs.
Generation = 1750, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 122.933 secs.
Generation = 1800, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 126.297 secs.
Generation = 1823, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 127.88 secs.

Best solution written to solution.txt
Best solution found has objective value = 1132.77
Processing time = 127.88 secs.

1132.77
```

After finishing the running, you may be interest into some of those files:

- `brkga-solutions.csv`: The solver appends to this file. It contais the progress of each execution of the `brkga` binary, with details about the best individual of each generation.
- `solution.txt`: Contains the best solution found during the search. This file is overwritten on each run of `brkga`

Commit message:

Additional information about how install linux dependencies to build the project using clang

README.md, after:

## A Biased Random Key Genetic Algorithm applied to the VRPTW with Skill Requirements and Synchronization Constraints

This repository contains the code of the genetic algorithm presented in [GECCO 2020 conference](https://gecco-2020.sigevo.org/index.html/HomePage).

## Building the project

To be able to compile the code, you need:
- A C++17 compiler (clang >= 6.0 should be fine)
- CMake build system

On a updated Debian/Ubuntu/Linux Mint installation, you can install those dependencies
by running `sudo apt install clang++-8 cmake libomp-8-dev`.

To build the project, browse to the `build` directory and issue the command `cmake ..` to generate the makefile. Then, simply run `make`. By default, CMake is set to generate a debug-friendly binary, with all code optimizations disabled and all symbols embedded. To change this behavior, run `CXX=clang++-8 cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` to enable the `-O3` optimization flag.

## Running the genetic algorithm

Once compiled, you should be ready to use this implementation of the BRKGA. If you execute the binary `brkga` without any arguments, it will present you the command line usage.

```bash
$./brkga
Usage: ./brkga  <1:inst path> <2:seed> <3:pop size> <4:num generations> <5:% elite> <6:% mutant> <7:% bias inherit elite>
```

Following the list of parameters, you need to specify:

- `<1: inst path>` The path to the instance file to be solved
- `<2: seed>` The seed to be set into the Pseudo-RNG
- `<3: pop size>` Number of individuals of each generation
- `<4:num generations>` Number of generations to evolve
- `<5:% elite>` Population percentage of elite individuals
- `<6:% mutant>` Population percentage of new mutants
- `<7:% bias inherit elite>` Probability to inherit an allele from the elite parent during the mating

__Note__: `<5:% elite> +  <6:% mutant> < 1.0`

__Note 2__: `<7:% bias inherit elite> < 1.0`

An example of usage is the following. This example uses 8 threads to decode the individuals. To disable multithreading, set the environment variable `OMP_NUM_THREADS=1`.

```bash
$ ./brkga ../instances-HHCRSP/InstanzVNS_HCSRP_200_8.txt 2 885 1823 0.20655 0.05408 0.32728
=== BRKGA-based solver for the HHCRSP ===
Instance: ../instances-HHCRSP/InstanzVNS_HCSRP_200_8.txt
Seed: 2
Generation = 50, best solution =  2903.09, elapsed time = 3.481 secs.
Generation = 100, best solution =  1765.38, elapsed time = 7.168 secs.
Generation = 150, best solution =  1571.42, elapsed time = 10.492 secs.
Generation = 200, best solution =  1461.08, elapsed time = 13.887 secs.
Generation = 250, best solution =  1392.1, elapsed time = 17.318 secs.
Generation = 300, best solution =  1320.64, elapsed time = 20.737 secs.
Generation = 350, best solution =  1274.02, elapsed time = 24.355 secs.
Generation = 400, best solution =  1232.03, elapsed time = 27.664 secs.
Generation = 450, best solution =  1182.36, elapsed time = 31.117 secs.
Generation = 500, best solution =  1166.19, elapsed time = 34.72 secs.
Generation = 550, best solution =  1161.21, elapsed time = 38.215 secs.
Generation = 600, best solution =  1158.65, elapsed time = 41.631 secs.
Generation = 650, best solution =  1154.9, elapsed time = 45.002 secs.
Generation = 700, best solution =  1154.05, elapsed time = 48.51 secs.
Generation = 750, best solution =  1152.38, elapsed time = 51.901 secs.
Generation = 800, best solution =  1147.3, elapsed time = 55.352 secs.
Generation = 850, best solution =  1147.3, elapsed time = 58.882 secs.
Generation = 900, best solution =  1147.3, elapsed time = 62.523 secs.
Generation = 950, best solution =  1140.87, elapsed time = 66.19 secs.
Generation = 1000, best solution =  1138.8, elapsed time = 69.812 secs.
Generation = 1050, best solution =  1137.1, elapsed time = 73.386 secs.
Generation = 1100, best solution =  1135.76, elapsed time = 76.845 secs.
Generation = 1150, best solution =  1135.76, elapsed time = 80.285 secs.
Generation = 1200, best solution =  1135.3, elapsed time = 83.768 secs.
Generation = 1250, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 87.235 secs.
Generation = 1300, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 90.75 secs.
Generation = 1350, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 94.337 secs.
Generation = 1400, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 98.075 secs.
Generation = 1450, best solution =  1135.17, elapsed time = 101.765 secs.
Generation = 1500, best solution =  1135.14, elapsed time = 105.311 secs.
Generation = 1550, best solution =  1135.14, elapsed time = 109.195 secs.
Generation = 1600, best solution =  1135.14, elapsed time = 112.752 secs.
Generation = 1650, best solution =  1134.21, elapsed time = 116.168 secs.
Generation = 1700, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 119.571 secs.
Generation = 1750, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 122.933 secs.
Generation = 1800, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 126.297 secs.
Generation = 1823, best solution =  1132.77, elapsed time = 127.88 secs.

Best solution written to solution.txt
Best solution found has objective value = 1132.77
Processing time = 127.88 secs.

1132.77
```

After finishing the running, you may be interest into some of those files:

- `brkga-solutions.csv`: The solver appends to this file. It contais the progress of each execution of the `brkga` binary, with details about the best individual of each generation.
- `solution.txt`: Contains the best solution found during the search. This file is overwritten on each run of `brkga`
